The Joe Rogan experience.
Oh God,
can you like minority report of like legitimate, serious?
You know what the problem with that would be if you could go,
like if you were with a baby and you CA he said,
because of this baby's life and where he's at this baby will one day be a
serial killer.
I'm just trying to figure out how we got to just be in with the baby,
with the scenario I'm just hanging. It's not even near baby.
Well, you're at a hospital.
Maybe there's some like some future prognostication tools where they can like
zoom in on a baby's brain and see exactly where it's going to go.
I mean,
there's gotta be something to having some sort of consistency with the neurology
of.
I think it alters with a life.
I think it's many things and obviously I'm a moron. So I don't really know.
You say you're a moron. As I'm sitting,
watching this beautiful sign lit up behind you in this gorgeous building,
you are not a moron, you're total moron, but you're a very smart moron.
Compared to smart people. You need to trust me, I'm a legit moron,
but I have a, uh, a way of looking at things. It's, it's, um,
a little freer in my associations because I don't worry about being fired.
Right. And so I haven't worried about being fired for a long time.
So I have a certain freedom in the way I look at things,
but that's not intelligence. But my point is that I don't remember my point.
What were we talking about?
We were talking about.
Serial killers. Yeah. Um,
if you could take that child and raise it differently,
would it turn out to be an amazing person? See, like what happens to a person?
You know, the, the, the concept of determinism. Do you know that over freewill,
freewill, meaning that you have control of your destiny? Determinism is like,
hold on a second. It's way more complicated than that. Your,
who you are right now is a combination of many factors that are outside of your
control, particularly when you're a child abuse, violence, and trauma,
those shape a child in very horrific ways, uh,
and neglect. One of the things I was, I was watching a documentary about the,
um, unit Unabomber and the unit bombers brother, Ted Kaczynski.
His brother was talking about how, when Ted had a condition,
when he was a child,
they brought him to this place to treat him and they let these,
he was a baby and they left him alone for like months.
So during a critical period of his life, like he had no love,
no touch of his mother. Like this is like really important stuff.
I forget how long the period was. I want to say it was like two months,
but even if it was like two weeks, like, what does that do to a child?
It's gotta be.
Detrimental. See if you could find it, Jamie. It was, uh,
in the documentary that is recently on,
I think it was on Netflix. The, he talked about it, you know?
So he lived in this shack in Montana and he would point guns and people and not
kill him.
And then he starts riding this manifesto and then he starts sending bombs to
people. But there's so many factors there. Here's, here's one,
besides the fact that it's his parents left him in this place.
They definitely left him in this place for a period of time that I think was
pretty extended. I think it was at least two weeks. It might've been two months.
Jesus. He was also part of the Harvard LSD experiment. Oh.
So in Harvard, during the 19, I guess it was fifties,
not sure when he was going to school at Harvard,
they were doing these LSD studies. And um, I was.
Like, MK, ultra.
How's you don't know? Right. I would say, yeah, no, I don't know.
And they must've had.
For sure, they had studies helping them fuel their own studies.
And find a time. But this is what it says about it. Okay. Um,
when Ted Kaczynski was, uh, at a tender age, he got sick.
It was taken to a hospital with hives or swollen red bumps that appeared on his
skin. His family said he was isolated from his parents.
His doctor tried to determine what was wrong with the infant.
Mom always faulted the hospital. They would have been there every day visiting,
but the hospital said, no,
David Kaczynski said in the docu-series and it was kind of like,
we don't want parents to be in the way we've got our work to do.
We have our little baby to cure. So keep your distance.
And they were only allowed to visit him two times a week for two hours.
Oh my God. It's insane.
So then you think about us being a quarantine. Are we going to create serial?
Okay.
A little bit, but look at the bottom.
He come out and he'd never been the same after that. She said,
so it changed him as a toddler. So you got that. Okay.
So this, uh,
this horrific neglect that he experienced as a child through no fault of his
own, so free will we have to look at freewill? Like, what does that mean?
Are you saying he has free, will like this guy with a broken brain?
Cause he was ignored as a child or people that were sexually abused as children
for years and years and years by a close family route relative or uh,
or a family member. And no one believes them. That that's real too. Right.
How much has that changed you? Then he goes on to be a part of these Harvard.
LSD studies. And then you also have to factor into that. You have to factor.
In the gender. Pretty sure that's true. But you know, I'm wrong a lot.
Don't you think you have to factor gender in a little bit? Him?
Yeah. I'm sure. Anger. He was apparently like super,
his brother talked about how he's super angry. When a girl would reject him,
he would get furious.
Testosterone that is affected differently than somebody who's, you know,
a female with estrogen being the leading hormone. Like there's gotta be,
that has to factor into it a little.
Bit Unabomber in the Harvard joke, experiments.
I mean, you got to admire the outfit though.
That style that's me in the airport.
Um, does it say anything in their psychology today as a two? Okay.
Where does it say that he was there? Oh,
it was a part of the entail or progress. Yeah.
So where does it say about Ted Kaczynski? Does it say that in there
I'm 99% sure. He was a part of the study.
You'd be surprised. I mean, if,
if Manson was it's like they had like the NBA starting
lineup of cereal.
Just to Google, uh, Ted Kaczynski, there it is.
And analysis of the personality of adult Hitler.
And that's the thing like how, when you think of the,
the circles of psychology and how many overlap,
how many are overlapping with people like Hitler and Ted Kaczynski and all of
these? Like what are the, what are those common denominators amongst them?
Because that's what we have to figure out is people who study the brain and,
and study behavioral patterns. That's really going to tell us a lot,
but you're right, like will and.
Determinism or freewill.
And I used to think much more that it was free will because I'm a stubborn
person. I said, look, you figure it up, bro.
Like when I was younger and particularly,
but the more I talked to people that really understand the concept, the more it,
it, let me relax my grip on my opinion, which is very important.
Right? When you,
you have an opinion about something it's very important to examine how much of a
grip you have on this opinion and whether or not this opinion is connected to
you judging your own intelligence. Are you in a,
like a game with people where your opinions better than their opinion? Like,
are you married to these ideas? Well.
For people as well because of cognitive dissonance,
like we have a natural reaction to learning new things.
A hundred percent. Well, we, we have,
we like things to fall in line with whatever we already, I, yeah.
W we very assumed as our ideas.
So this is the study and it says, uh, another ethically problematic,
and this is a up story. Ethically problematic study was conducted by, uh,
Henry a Marie Marie was a professor Murray was a professor at Harvard
university and had worked with the office of strategic services.
The predecessor to the CIA was before the CIA.
They didn't just didn't have a good name yet.
What are we going to call? Just strategic services, put it on the, on the door.
What sounds better?
Central intelligence agency or the office of strategic services.
Strategic services is too hard to say. It's so hard to say it's too comfortable.
Right? Well.
That's true. Yeah. But strategic services, like,
like it sounds got a gun to your head.
What are you doing here for the office of.
You have two strategic servicemen and your, and your.
Yeah. I agree with the name. CIA, it's a better name. I'll say. Okay.
So during world war II, he wrote an analysis of the personality of Adolf Hitler,
which was a psychological, psychological analysis
of Hitler that was used. I can't just come up with a better word.
Why is psychological so long?
The mind of analysis of Hitler, it was used by the military.
And during this time he also helped develop tests to screen soldiers conducting,
uh, conducted as tests on brainwashing and determined how well soldiers could
withstand interrogations. So what they were trying to do is break people.
So they took, this is what's crazy about it.
They took these students and they would do things to them.
They would interrogate them and with them and they would also dose them.
And so the interrogation studies,
it says included intense mock interrogations on soldiers as part of
assessing the limits of their psychological breaking points. Okay. That's a.
Little perverse.
Right? He conducted such interrogation studies on Harvard university
undergraduates, Theodore Kaczynski, who led her later,
became known as the Unabomber was one of the 22 participants in Murray study
subjected to several years of interrogations designed to psychologically
break the young man.
The people who have run these studies under the same interrogation
that the soldiers of world war II were under,
where we went after the Nazis,
we should be going after people who ran these terrible tests and basically
created some of society's most prominent and infamous
serial.
That's a night. You're right. And it's,
it's a nice way of looking at it that we D he deserves punishment.
We deserve revenge and all that stuff. Yes, yes.
And all of his victims deserve events.
But what I'm interested in is that this
man, like if karma is real, if that's real,
if like what you are today is this long chain
of lies that you live that have brought you to this.
And you're thinking of yourself in this income incarnation,
because this is the only one you've ever known. But in reality,
you're the process of this long line of beings that has gone on since the
beginning of life itself.
All the ancestry in you.
What did that guy do in another life? Think about if that's true,
I'm not saying it's true, but imagine if it is,
let's just as a thought experiment,
imagine of it is that you're going to come back as a guy who is ignored in this
place, because they're treating you with some rando disease that you got,
that most babies don't get. So you have these horrible hives.
They keep you in this place where they take care of children for
weeks, they don't let you visit them a couple of times a week,
or however long they kept him there. I don't know how, I don't remember.
I want to say it was two months and.
We know your numbers are a little off.
It could be an hour. He was.
There for 45.
Years. He was there. Most of his life, they let him out in college. So he,
he gets out of there.
And then his brother would talk about these like moments of rage that he would
have, that would be terrifying. And that like, uh,
like if a girl rejected in particular,
he would write like horrific notes to them, like really mean, mean notes.
And then this guy goes,
and does these Harvard studies where they with him relentlessly and they're
trying to break him.
It's almost like they knew that this was a guy that was unusually broken.
Right. And susceptible to breaking in the way that would benefit their study.
And especially like,
when you think about the male brain and the formative years go well into your,
into your fricking 20.
Yeah. Like 25 to the frontal cortex. I think it's females too.
I think maybe you guys are a little quicker. We're a bit quick. We're.
Like 18, 19, but you know, still like he's on the heels of his brain,
barely being.
Formed acid and trying to break him psychologically and.
Doing like mocking alone as a child on
the playground.
Although I do think it's a necessary passage into adulthood is to deal with
adversity. Mocking alone is brutal.
And then you add it to this study with LSD being thrown into the mix where your
brain is not on a solid ground,
the way it's going to process everything is obviously detrimental to who you
become. And it, it changes your, it changes your brain chemistry.
Well, I think there's like a problem,
a real undeniable problem with having secrecy.
What do you mean if you're like an organization that has ultimate power,
like the CIA in the 1950s,
and you can run these studies and no one knows about them and you're giving kids
acid and you're trying to break them. It's
Crazy to them who knows what they did do.
Right. And it's like, is it really free or study? Or are you guys just bored.
Or do you just get to do this.
Right? Is this something you get to do?
And you're just pushing the ticket because you can,
and you're funded that's so demented.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan express.